2025 was a whirlwind. Riding the wave of new job hype and a world overcome with AI, I also submit a talk to Elixir Conf USA and got to give it at the end of August. That was an amazing experience, more to come on that another time, and I redirected my focus from blogging to conference prep. Despite everything going on with AI, I actually gave that talk on Event Sourcing in Elixir. In reflection, I overdid it, overcommitted a bit, and spent the end of the year recovering. I've been eager to get back to writing and a bit hesitant because I want to do a better job of pacing myself.

Last year I wrote 9 posts that I'm quite proud of, and they absolutely provided me with the opportunity to write as a form of thinking. At first I was disapointed I dropped off at the end of the year, but the more I've thought about it, the more content I am with what I did. Not only was it enough, and representing myself well, but I was outpacing my original goal of 1 piece per month. My goal has been clear, short, and interesting topics that I'm currently obsessing over. To that end, the writing is usually not what takes the time, it's thinking about what element I actually want to talk about for any given topic. Plus, things have been changing so quickly, month to month I may have multiple posts I'm considering and don't pursue. This year, I want to push that even further and try to write even shorter, more targetted ideas I'm having and possibly sacrificing having a full cohesive narrative to surround the idea. Either way, this years goal is to keep it up, and go slower. Writing is a good habit for me and I'm better off pacing myself and making it all year (this is not my natural tendency).

I was really focused on the initial development experience with AI last year, from trying to sell the idea to coworkers and friends in the beginning, to how my mindset had changed and what support can be built for the AI to do a better job. Since then I've been thinking a lot about second order effects on what "development" is. I'm a big believer right now that software engineering isn't a dieing craft, but the way that we practice it most certainly is. I want to explore that more this year. At Bright Harbor, even with me pushing us to stay on top of everything, I didn't anticipate how much development would change and how fast it would keep happening. For now, I'm preparing myself for more changes to come and starting to think more about what it looks like when the technical challenges are not the bottleneck anymore.

The central ideas that I can't stop thinking about now really revolve around small teams and building tech startups with AI (snore). I've been personally sold on coding agents and their relentless improvement since last year, but we have even gone beyond that where it's not about how many agents I can run personally on my laptop and it really has started to open the question of what does it look like when I can get that same power to everyone on the team.

My big concern today is "code governance". What is the best workflow for a small product team if there truly were no constraints on how we could work? Then, meeting that answer with a touch of reality, trying to figure out how to sustain an onslaught of more code coming in, and coming from sources other than engineers, and the really hard one - what do we do with that code when there is feedback? I don't have an answer yet, but code review used to be about giving feedback to an engineer who was both writing the code and carrying the business context, but now maybe thats not just 1 person, and likely the code review isn't going to the product mind, but rather to an AI agent and there is going to have to be a new pattern to reconcile that.

I don't want to get too abstract because I don't like reading articles those types of articles as much as folks actually suffering their own real world decisions, so let me make this one concrete. We have coding agents like Claude Code locally for dev and all sorts of skills and claude.md and tests, and even scripts that are meant to provide feedback to the agent rather than a person, and that works great. We have agents written just on top of API calls, and they have a more limited environment, and it's a bit harder to prove they work great and the tools to improve them are a bit more limited (prompt engineering mostly). Most recently, we have remote Claude Code agents that do development work at the behest of anyone on the team, and this is where we are fully in the discovery phase of what works, what doesn't, and how do I even know which case it falls into. Look forward to me rambling through ideas of how to fix that this year :)

The tl;dr dear reader, I'm back, I'm looking forward to an even wilder year, and I'm going to try and write down what I'm thinking more frequently and with less formality. If you are interested to chat, or you have an idea of your own to discuss, I'd love to make time. I had a lot of really good conversations last year with new folks (do I enjoy networking now?) that have wrinkled my brain and I relish the opportunity to entice YOU into that position.
